Use vcpkg on all presets (#469)
DescentDevelopers/Descent3: README.md

    - D3 Open Source compiles level scripts in their own hogfiles. Make sure you copy and overwrite `d3-{platform}.hog`.

## Building
### Dependencies

> The build process uses [**CMake**](https://cmake.org/) and, by default, [**Ninja**](https://ninja-build.org/). You must install these; the project cannot locate them for you. The source code depends on [**SDL2**](https://github.com/libsdl-org/SDL) and [**zlib**](https://github.com/madler/zlib). You can supply these dependencies yourself via your system's library management tools, or the build system can locate the dependencies for you using [vcpkg](https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg), a cross-platform dependency-management system developed by Microsoft. The official builds source their dependencies from vcpkg.

Reviewer: The SDL2 link goes to the SDL repo’s branch for SDL3. I would change it to this:

```suggestion
The build process uses [**CMake**](https://cmake.org/) and, by default, [**Ninja**](https://ninja-build.org/). You must install these; the project cannot locate them for you. The source code depends on [**SDL2**](https://github.com/libsdl-org/SDL/tree/SDL2) and [**zlib**](https://github.com/madler/zlib). You can supply these dependencies yourself via your system's library management tools, or the build system can locate the dependencies for you using [vcpkg](https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg), a cross-platform dependency-management system developed by Microsoft. The official builds source their dependencies from vcpkg.
```

### Installing and using vcpkg

> * When building for Windows, vcpkg is already installed and configured when using the Developer Tools Command Prompt.

Reviewer: The Command Prompt that we tell users to use doesn’t have the phrase “Developer Tools” in its title. I would reword that sentence to make it more clear that the vcpkg thing applies to all of the “-for VS 2022” Command Prompts:

```suggestion
* When building for Windows, vcpkg is already installed and configured when using any of the Visual Studio Command Prompts.
```

> * For Android, Linux or Mac (or non-standard-Windows) configurations, you will need to install vcpkg locally by cloning https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg and setting your `VCPKG_ROOT` env var to the repository location. With this environment variable set, the build will automatically locate its dependencies.

Reviewer 2: Android is not technically supported yet

Author: > Is there a reason we don't set the toolchain in the presets?

This is an old comment, but to close the loop on it: Setting it unconditionally would make all builds unconditionally use vcpkg, which was discovered to be an anti-goal.

> Android is not technically supported yet

_yet_

Reviewer: I don’t think that we should mention Android here until we actually support Android. It would make it look like the `main` branch supports Android even though it doesn’t support Android. Also, there’s no guarantee that the `main` branch will support Android. [Your other PR](https://github.com/DescentDevelopers/Descent3/pull/459) might get accepted or it might get rejected. We might even decide that the upstream version of Descent 3 should never support Android and that Android support should be done in a fork. I don’t think that any of those scenarios are likely, but they are possible.

    - D3 Open Source compiles level scripts in their own hogfiles. Make sure you copy and overwrite `d3-{platform}.hog`.

## Building
#### Prerequisites
1. [**vcpkg**](https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg)
    This project depends on [`vcpkg`](https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg), a cross-platform dependency-management system developed by Microsoft. You will need to install it locally by cloning https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg and setting your `VCPKG_ROOT` env var to the repository location.

> 

Reviewer: This kind of breaks the order of the build instructions. In order to clone the `vcpkg` repo, you need to either have the `git` command or something like [GitHub Desktop](https://desktop.github.com), but we don’t tell users to install Git until later on in the instructions.

Additionally, this step is redundant on Windows. [When you open an “x86 Native Tools Command Prompt”, it will set `VCPKG_ROOT` for you.](https://github.com/DescentDevelopers/Descent3/pull/413#discussion_r1624974614)

Also, I have a few minor critiques of this part:

- Having a list with a single item on it looks weird. I would remove the `1. `.
- The bold `vcpkg` link is redundant. I would remove the `[**vcpkg**](https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg)`.

Author: Updated! I'm thinking that, in a separate PR, I'll offer up a way to make `vcpkg` a submodule of the main git repo - that would eliminate the need for a prereq setup step in the first place. For this PR however I think just the doc update should be sufficient; don't wanna scope-creep.

Reviewer: OK. I think that it’s good enough at the moment. We can wait until the submodule PR to fix the build instructions order.

(Again, I would mark this conversation as resolved, but I can’t.)

    ```batch
    git clone https://github.com/DescentDevelopers/Descent3
    ```

3. **Acquire the library dependencies.**

    The Native Tools prompts will already have vcpkg installed and configured for use, so no dependency management is needed.

4. **Build Descent3.**

    Open a “x64 Native Tools Command Prompt” and run:
    ```batch
    cd Descent3
    cmake --preset win
    cmake --build --preset win --config [Debug|Release]
    ```
    See [Build Options](#build-options) below for more information on `Debug` vs `Release`.

Once CMake finishes, the built files will be put in `builds\win\Descent3\Debug` or `builds\win\Descent3\Release`.

### Building - macOS
1. **Install the prerequisite build tools.**

    * Make sure that [Xcode](https://developer.apple.com/xcode) is installed.
    * Make sure that [Homebrew](https://brew.sh) is installed.

2. **Clone the Descent3 source code.**

    Open a Terminal and run:
    ```sh
    git clone https://github.com/DescentDevelopers/Descent3
    ```

3. **Acquire the library dependencies.**

    * If you would like to use vcpkg:
        ```sh
        git clone https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg
        cd vcpkg

>         export VCPKG_ROOT=$(pwd)

Author: interesting, i didn't actually know `$PWD` was a variable we could use. i habitually use `$()` syntax but i'm fine with this.

        # IMPORTANT: You will need $VCPKG_ROOT defined for all build runs. It is a good idea to set this in your .bashrc or equivalent.
        ```
    * If you would like to manage the code dependencies yourself:
        ```sh
        brew install sdl2 zlib googletest
        ```

4. **Build Descent3.**

    ```sh
    cd Descent3
    brew bundle install
    cmake --preset mac
    cmake --build --preset mac --config [Debug|Release]

>     ```

Author: I removed a bunch of the Terminal text in general, lmk if it reads ok.

>     ```

Reviewer: Looks good to me.

    ```sh
    git clone https://github.com/DescentDevelopers/Descent3
    ```

3. **Acquire the library dependencies.**

    * If you would like to use vcpkg:
        ```sh
        git clone https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg
        cd vcpkg
        export VCPKG_ROOT=$(pwd)
        # IMPORTANT: You will need $VCPKG_ROOT defined for all build runs. It is a good idea to set this in your .bashrc or equivalent.
        ```
    * If you would like to manage the code dependencies yourself:
        * Apt users
            ```sh
            sudo apt install -y --no-install-recommends libsdl2-dev zlib1g-dev libgtest-dev
        * Dnf users
            ```sh
            sudo dnf install sdl2-devel zlib-devel gtest
            ```

4. **Build Descent3.**

    ```sh
    cd Descent3
    cmake --preset linux
    cmake --build --preset linux --config [Debug|Release]
    ```
    See [Build Options](#build-options) below for more information on `Debug` vs `Release`.

Once CMake finishes, the built files will be put in `builds/linux/Descent3/Debug` or `builds/linux/Descent3/Release`.

#### Build Options

| Option | Description | Default |
| ------ | ----------- | ------- |

> | `--config` | `Debug` builds are generally larger, slower and contain extra correctness checks that will validate game data and interrupt gameplay when problems are detected. `Release` builds are optimized for size and speed and do not include debugging information, which makes it harder to find problems. | `Debug` |

Reviewer 2: You can say that using `CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE` is the same

        --add Microsoft.VisualStudio.Component.VC.ATLMFC
    ```

    **NOTE:**

>     Builds _must_ be performed in the “x64 Native Tools Command Prompt” (or PowerShell) provided by Visual Studio, _not_ a standard Command Prompt (or PowerShell). The Native Tools CLIs will already have vcpkg installed and configured for use, so no dependency management is needed.

Reviewer: There is no “x64 Native Tools PowerShell”. I would remove that first reference to PowerShell:

```suggestion
    Builds _must_ be performed in the “x64 Native Tools Command Prompt” provided by Visual Studio, _not_ a standard Command Prompt (or PowerShell). The Native Tools CLIs will already have vcpkg installed and configured for use, so no dependency management is needed.
```

2. **Clone the Descent3 source code.**

>     Open a Developer Command Prompt (or Developer PowerShell, x64 Native Tools Command Prompt, etc if you want a specific environment) and run:

Reviewer: Why did we switch from telling people to use an x64 Native Tools Command Prompt to telling people to use any of the “-for VS 2022” command prompts?

Author: Hubris! I wanted to make sure it was clear that PowerShell would work as well, and overreached. I've switched the README back to saying
> Open a "x64 Native Tools Command Prompt" or "x64 Native Tools PowerShell" and run:

Reviewer: I don’t have an x64 Native Tool PowerShell shortcut in my Start menu:

![My Start menu has an entry named “Visual Studio 2022”. Beneath that entry, there’s a folder that’s also named “Visual Studio 2022”. In that folder there are several entries: “Debuggable Package Manager”, “Developer Command Prompt for VS 2022”, “Developer PowerShell for VS 2022”, “x64 Native Tools Command Prompt for VS 2022”, “x64_x86 Cross Tools Command Prompt for VS 2022”, “x86 Native Tools Command Prompt for VS 2022” and “x86_64 Cross Tools Command Prompt for VS 2022”. Beneath all of the entries in the “Visual Studio 2022” folder is an entry named “Visual Studio Installer”.](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/40e4b041-a56c-4948-b46f-1cd321442aba)

How do I open an x64 Native Tools PowerShell? Do I need to do something in order to get a Start menu shortcut for it?

        export VCPKG_ROOT="$PWD/vcpkg"
        ```
        **NOTE:**
        You will need `$VCPKG_ROOT` defined in the environment for all build runs. It is a good idea to set this in your `.bashrc` or equivalent.
    * If you would like to manage the code dependencies yourself:
        ```sh
        brew install sdl2 zlib googletest
        ```

3. **Clone the Descent3 source code.**

    ```sh
    git clone https://github.com/DescentDevelopers/Descent3
    ```

4. **Build Descent3.**

    ```sh
    cd Descent3
    brew bundle install
    cmake --preset mac
    cmake --build --preset mac --config [Debug|Release]
    ```
    See [Build Options](#build-options) below for more information on `Debug` vs `Release`.

Once CMake finishes, the built files will be put in `builds/mac/Descent3/Debug` or `builds/mac/Descent3/Release`.

### Building - Linux
1. **Install the prerequisite build tools.**

    * APT users (Debian, Ubuntu)
        ```sh
        sudo apt update
        sudo apt install -y --no-install-recommends git ninja-build cmake g++ libncurses-dev
        ```
    * DNF users (Red Hat, Fedora)
        ```sh
        sudo dnf update --refresh

>         sudo dnf install -y git ninja-build cmake gcc-c++ ncurses-devel

Reviewer: Why do we need ncurses?

Reviewer 2: #407 removes every use of ncurses

Author: ncurses provides `term.h`, which [we do still seem to need](https://github.com/DescentDevelopers/Descent3/blob/main/linux/lnxapp.cpp#L75)

Reviewer 3: Seems this is oversight by me. `term.h` is unused and can be safely removed from code.

        ```

2. **Acquire the library dependencies.**

    * If you would like to use vcpkg:

>         1. Clone vcpkg

Reviewer: This line is missing a colon:

```suggestion
        1. Clone vcpkg:
```
